CHANGELOG: add changes for v1.12.0 (#13266)
hashicorp/packer: CHANGELOG.md

## 1.12.0 (January 22, 2025)

### FEATURES:

> * core: add support for a DAG-based evaluation on locals and datasources.
>       A long-standing odditiy of Packer in terms of evaluation has been the
>       locals/datasource order dependency. In previous versions of Packer, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* core: add support for a DAG-based evaluation on locals and datasources.
      A long-standing odditiy of Packer has been the order of evaluating locals and datasources.
      In previous versions of Packer, the
```

      datasources were evaluated first, then the local variables were, making
      it impossible to have a datasource that referenced a local variable as
      part of its configuration.
      This change introduces a Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG) to evaluate those
      resources, instead of the phased approach of old, which makes the order
      of evaluation not dependent on the type of resource, but instead of the
      detected dependencies between them.
      **Note**: While we are confident this should be robust enough for general
      use, we do recognise that it is possible some users might encounter issues.
      To give those users a way to continue using the old evaluation method, we
      introduced a `-use-sequential-evaluation` command-line flag to the build,
      validate, console and inspect subcommands, to force using the sequential
      evaluation approach for those entities.
      [GH-13155](https://github.com/hashicorp/packer/pull/13155)

* core/hcp: support for uploading SBOMs to HCP Packer.

>       Software Bill of Materials is a standardised way to export the various

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Software Bill of Material (SBOM) files are a standardized way to export the various
```

      software packages linked to an artifact. As some users have expressed a
      need to produce and access those for images they build, we now add the
      feature to Packer itself.

>       While the production of the SBOM itself is not supported directly by
>       Packer, instead we recommend using known scanners to produce them, we add
>       the capacity to upload this SBOM file to HCP Packer, and link it to a
>       build artifact.
>       [GH-13171](https://github.com/hashicorp/packer/pull/13171)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      While the generation of the SBOM itself is not done directly by
      Packer, instead we recommend using known scanners to produce them, we add
      the capacity to upload this SBOM file to HCP Packer, and link it to a
      build artifact.
      [GH-13171](https://github.com/hashicorp/packer/pull/13171)
```
